---
title: Multi-Container Pods Can be Valuable For Tightly-Coupled Applications
parentDir: k8s/in-depth
slug: k8s/in-depth/multi-container-pods
shortSlug: multi-container-pods
author: Jake Laursen
excerpt: A few meaningful approaches to deploying multiple containers in a single pod
tags: ["Kubernetes", "k8s", "pods", "containers", "patterns", "sidecar", "adapter", "ambassador"]
order: 12
---

# Multi-Container Pods
A Microservice-Style set of apps might work for multi-container pods.  
A web server might need a logging service. Ba-Da-Bing Ba-da-boom.  
When 2 containers are in the same pod, the containers can "know" about each other as "localhost" - a nice little tidbit.  

## They Share Things
- they share a single ip address
- they share a single namespace.  

## Both Containers Must Stay Alive
It is expected that both containers in a multi-container pod stay alive for the lifecycle of the pod.  
### initContainers Are the Exception
Sometimes a container may be a completion-based container: a container may just pull data or images from a repo and then no longer be needed.  
initContainers are how K8s allows for these limitied-up-time containers to run.  
initContainers run before the "regular" container runs.  
initContainers run in a sequential order.  
initContainers that _fail_ will trigger k8s to kill & restart the whole pod - unti the initContainer succeeds.  

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata: sauce
spec:
  containers:
  - name: myapp-container
    image: busybox:1.28
    command: ['sh', '-c', 'echo The app is running! && sleep 3600']
  initContainers:
  - name: init-myservice
    image: busybox
    command: ['sh', '-c', 'git clone <some-repository-that-will-be-used-by-application> ;']
    
```

## Extend a Primary Function with the Sidecar Pattern
- No intervention required of the primary container
- The second container is independent of the primary
- helpful to the primary, like a sidecar on a motorcycle

## Proxy Access Between Containers with the Ambassador Pattern
- Scaling an existing Service? the Ambassador pattern can extract things like repeating access-details into a separate container
- Testing the deployment of a project? The ambassador container can be a proxy, routing a percentage of traffic to a test deployment

##  Transform output from a Primary container with the Adapter Pattern
- Transformers - They're robots in disguise
- transform/modify data generated by a primary container